---
layout: post
title: Is it possible to remain materialistic after seeing the spiritual master?
categories: [The Spiritual Master]
author: Prabhupada Srila Bhakti Siddhanta Sarasvati Thakur
tags: the_spiritual_master
description: "If we proudly think we are great, we cannot become humble. Even though we are servants, we would prefer to be masters. As a result, we would bring about our own ruination because we would come to see everything as fit for our enjoyment rather than for Krsna's enjoyment. If we can see everything in relation to guru and Krsna, we will not see it as meant for our personal enjoyment. When we wear blue spectacles everything appears blue; by seeing everything in relation to guru and Krsna, we come to see everything through divine vision. Everything will rightly appear worshipable. This universe is full of objects for the service of the master of this universe. Therefore, all objects are worshipable. If we are endowed with spiritual vision, we can easily see Krsna."
---

If we proudly think we are great, we cannot become humble. Even though we are servants, we would prefer to be masters. As a result, we would bring about our own ruination because we would come to see everything as fit for our enjoyment rather than for Krsna's enjoyment. If we can see everything in relation to guru and Krsna, we will not see it as meant for our personal enjoyment. When we wear blue spectacles everything appears blue; by seeing everything in relation to guru and Krsna, we come to see everything through divine vision. Everything will rightly appear worshipable. This universe is full of objects for the service of the master of this universe. Therefore, all objects are worshipable. If we are endowed with spiritual vision, we can easily see Krsna.

​	Just as the mother who is meant to be enjoyed by the father and not by me, the father is meant to be served by me, similarly I am meant to serve and worship this material world, which is meant for the universal Father's enjoyment. If we actually take shelter of a spiritual master and serve him sincerely with love, we will certainly attain Krsna's service along with transcendental knowledge about Him. 

​	We have to act in a way that doesn't bring us into the association of gross materialists and woman. Then we will be able to treat objects meant for Krsna's enjoyment as worhsipable. Our service propernsity will be awakened when we stop considering ourselves enjoyers of woman and matter. When we are free of this enjoying propensity, we will actually be able to realize Krsna. Even after we accept initiation, if we continue to maintain an enjoying spirit, we are fallen. Therefore, I advise those who want auspiciousness to catch hold of their bonafide spiritual master's lotus feet and serve him as their life and soul. In this way, their perfection will be guaranteed. An obedient and faithful disciple never falls down. Devotees who are attached to the spiritual master's lotus feet will certainly attain Krsna's lotus feet.
